The enemy of my enemy is my friend
 - The enemy is my ignorance
 - AI knows C, Scheme, and Raylib better than I do
 - Utilize AI to learn concepts, scheme, C and raylib - so far it's going well
 - AI has made a few mistakes but has consistently found, and corrected, its own errors

Summary as of 06/30/2026
------------------------
Items we covered:

- Chez scheme has good performance, fast compilation times, and generates highly optimized machine code.
- Chez's nanopass compiler breaks the compilation process into several manageable passes.
- Scheme uses prefix notation enclosed in S-expressions.
- The 'define' keywords binds names to values and creates functions.
- Example: `(define (square x) (* x x)) ;; a function that squares a number.`
- Scheme relies on expressions that return values.
- Control flow expressions 'if' and 'cond'.
- Literal lists using the quote mark.

Our first small project was a simple password generator.
We created a recursive loop with the 'let' keyword.
AI differentiated 'let' and 'let*', where 'let*' evaluates variables in order because an early variable helps define the subsequent variables.  I inferred 'let' cannot have a variable dependency in the body.

Predicates and the 'and' keyword.
'read' 'display' 'newline' and 'begin' keywords

Improving randomness and several more keywords:
'random-seed' 
'time-nanosecond' 
'random-index' 
'random-char'
'current-time'
'cons'

Rejection sampling, booleans, characters versus strings, and safety checks.
'list-ref' to pull whole words from a word list, 'string-append' and the concept of composability.
File I/O, the 'call-with-input-file' 'line' 'get-line' 'words' 'lambda' 'eof-object?' keywords.
Calling system commands with 'system'.
'file-exists?' keyword.
Loading files via 'load' and using libraries.
C FFI and mapping procedures.
'load-shared-object' and 'foreign-procedure' keywords.
Various ways to inspect DLLs to see what is exported:
1. DLL Export Viewer (NirSoft)
2. Dependencies (open source)
3. Dumpbin (command line)
How to find function signatures from documentation:
'HWND' (handles) in C are pointers in scheme (void*).
'LPCWSTR' (long pointer to a constant wide string) requires Unicode or byte-vector FFI tools.
Initial Raylib calls and how to translate C structs to scheme code, including writing wrappers in C.
Structuring the raylib library 'raylib.sls'.
Growing the raylib library as needed rather than mapping all functions and structs at once.
The scheme rule that function definitions must precede expressions, so 'load-shared-object' must come after the define forms.
The 'not responding' issue and incorporated the 'begin-drawing' and 'end-drawing' functions.
The 'set-target-fps' function.
The 'machine-type' function and how to load shared libraries after querying the system architecture.
The 'case' conditional.
Distributing scheme applications.
  The somewhat deprecated 'petite' scheme interpreter.
  The ps2exe powershell module and potential issues with it being detected as possible malware.
Writing a pico-8 like development environment
Tried using the raygui library but decided against it for now.
Creating an simplified API for users.
PICO-8 colors and wrote a test script that uses the API.
The 'engine' script that loads user code and executes it.
How to protect the engine from crashes caused by mistakes in user's code, using the 'guard' function.
The 'copy-environment' function to allow the user's code to 'define' things.
Extending the api and making the user's game interactive.
Matching exact numbers in scheme.
The "Garbage Byte" trap and fixed our movement issues with a 'is-key-down?' predicate
Hot-reloading the game with the F5 key
Started covering audio but ran into issues

IN-PROGRESS: show me how to allocate memory for ftype structs and write data to them to avoid memory leaks

Scheme uses garbage collection while C allocates and reclaims memory manually
Scheme is not allowed to garbage collect in C's realm
4 steps:
1. measure with (ftype-sizeof _)
   ex: (ftype-sizeof rectangle-struct)
   the Raylib rectangle is made of 4 floats (4 bytes each) == 16 bytes
2. allocate memory
   (foreign-alloc 16) is scheme's way of allocating 16 bytes of memory.
   The operating system grants the request and returns a raw integer address.
3. define what the memory is
   (define my-rect (make-ftype-pointer rectangle-struct (foreign-alloc ...)))
   this maps the struct fields to the correct memory offsets (x, y, width, height)
4. write the data with (ftype-set!)
   (ftype-set! rectangle-struct (width) my-rect 160.0) ;; would write 160.0 to the 3rd slot of the 16-byte block
   
If we were to put those allocation steps inside the game loop, it would grow continuously 60 times per second.
Eventually the program would crash.
This is why we allocate before the loop and (foreign-free ...) right before the window closes

05/30/2026

C pads structs so their memory aligns to boundaries - usually 4 or 8-bit boundaries.
This is where scheme can get befuddled and possibly return bad results, or crash the app.


